
tutorialspoint

    Jobs
     SENDFiles
    Whiteboard  Whiteboard
     Net Meeting
    Tools
     Articles
        Facebook
        Google+
        Twitter
        Linkedin
        YouTube

    Home
    Tutorials Library
    Coding Ground
    Tutor Connect
    Videos
    Search

Data Structures & Algorithms Tutorial

    Data Structures & Algorithms
    DSA - Home
    DSA - Overview
    DSA - Environment Setup

    Algorithm
    DSA - Algorithms Basics
    DSA - Asymptotic Analysis
    DSA - Greedy Algorithms
    DSA - Divide and Conquer
    DSA - Dynamic Programming

    Data Structures
    DSA - Data Structure Basics
    DSA - Array Data Structure

    Linked Lists
    DSA - Linked List Basics
    DSA - Doubly Linked List
    DSA - Circular Linked List

    Stack & Queue
    DSA - Stack
    DSA - Expression Parsing
    DSA - Queue

    Searching Techniques
    DSA - Linear Search
    DSA - Binary Search
    DSA - Interpolation Search
    DSA - Hash Table

    Sorting Techniques
    DSA - Sorting Algorithms
    DSA - Bubble Sort
    DSA - Insertion Sort
    DSA - Selection Sort
    DSA - Merge Sort
    DSA - Shell Sort
    DSA - Quick Sort

    Graph Data Structure
    DSA - Graph Data Structure
    DSA - Depth First Traversal
    DSA - Breadth First Traversal

    Tree Data Structure
    DSA - Tree Data Structure
    DSA - Tree Traversal
    DSA - Binary Search Tree
    DSA - AVL Tree
    DSA - Spanning Tree
    DSA - Heap

    Recursion
    DSA - Recursion Basics
    DSA - Tower of Hanoi
    DSA - Fibonacci Series

    DSA Useful Resources
    DSA - Questions and Answers
    DSA - Quick Guide
    DSA - Useful Resources
    DSA - Discussion

    Selected Reading
    Developer's Best Practices
    Questions and Answers
    Effective Resume Writing
    HR Interview Questions
    Computer Glossary
    Who is Who

Data Structure and Algorithms - Quick Sort
Advertisements
Previous Page
Next Page  

Quick sort is a highly efficient sorting algorithm and is based on partitioning of array of data into smaller arrays. A large array is partitioned into two arrays one of which holds values smaller than the specified value, say pivot, based on which the partition is made and another array holds values greater than the pivot value.

Quick sort partitions an array and then calls itself recursively twice to sort the two resulting subarrays. This algorithm is quite efficient for large-sized data sets as its average and worst case complexity are of Ο(n2), where n is the number of items.
Partition in Quick Sort

Following animated representation explains how to find the pivot value in an array.
Quick Sort Partition Animation

The pivot value divides the list into two parts. And recursively, we find the pivot for each sub-lists until all lists contains only one element.
Quick Sort Pivot Algorithm

Based on our understanding of partitioning in quick sort, we will now try to write an algorithm for it, which is as follows.

Step 1 − Choose the highest index value has pivot
Step 2 − Take two variables to point left and right of the list excluding pivot
Step 3 − left points to the low index
Step 4 − right points to the high
Step 5 − while value at left is less than pivot move right
Step 6 − while value at right is greater than pivot move left
Step 7 − if both step 5 and step 6 does not match swap left and right
Step 8 − if left ≥ right, the point where they met is new pivot

Quick Sort Pivot Pseudocode

The pseudocode for the above algorithm can be derived as −

function partitionFunc(left, right, pivot)
   leftPointer = left
   rightPointer = right - 1

   while True do
      while A[++leftPointer] < pivot do
         //do-nothing            
      end while
		
      while rightPointer > 0 && A[--rightPointer] > pivot do
         //do-nothing         
      end while
		
      if leftPointer >= rightPointer
         break
      else                
         swap leftPointer,rightPointer
      end if
		
   end while 
	
   swap leftPointer,right
   return leftPointer
	
end function

Quick Sort Algorithm

Using pivot algorithm recursively, we end up with smaller possible partitions. Each 
Andrej Karpathy blog
About Hacker's guide to Neural Networks
Visualizing Top Tweeps with t-SNE, in Javascript

Jul 2, 2014

I was recently looking into various ways of embedding unlabeled, high-dimensional data in 2 dimensions for visualization. A wide variety of methods have been proposed for this task. This Review paper from 2009 contains nice references to many of them (PCA, Kernel PCA, Isomap, LLE, Autoencoders, etc.). If you have Matlab available, the Dimensionality Reduction Toolbox has a nice implementation of many of these methods. Scikit Learn also has a brief section on Manifold Learning along with the implementation.

Among these algorithms, t-SNE comes across as one that has a pleasing, intuitive formulation, simple gradient and nice properties. Here is a Google Tech Talks video of Laurens van der Maaten (the author) explaining the method. I set out to re-implement t-SNE from scratch since doing so is the best way of learning something that I know of, and what better language to do this in than - Javascript! :)

Long story short, I’ve implemented t-SNE in JS, released it as tsnejs on Github, and created a small demo that uses the library to visualize the top twitter accounts based on what they talk about. In this post, I thought it might be fun to document a small 1-day project like this, from beginning to end. This also gives me an opportunity to describe some of my projects toolkit, which others might find useful.
Final demo

First, take a look at the final demo. To create this demo I found the top 500 most followed accounts on Twitter, downloaded 200 of their tweets and then measured differences in what they tweet about. These differences are then fed to t-SNE to produce a 2-dimensional visualization, where nearby people tweet similar things. Fun!
Fetching top tweeps

We first have to identify the top 500 tweeps. I googled “top twitter accounts” and found http://twitaholic.com/ , which lists them out. However, the accounts are embedded in the webpage and we need to extract them in structured format. For this, I love a recent YC startup Kimono; I use it extensively to scrape structured data from websites. It lets you click the elements of interest (the Twitter handles in this case), and extracts them out in JSON. Easy as pie!
Collecting tweets

Now we have a list of top 500 tweeps and we’d like to obtain their tweets to get an idea about what they tweet about. My library of choice for this task is Tweepy. Their documentation is quite terrible but if you browse the source code things seem relatively simple. Here’s an example call to get 200 tweets for a given user:

tweets = tweepy.Cursor(api.user_timeline, screen_name=user).items(200)

We iterate this over all users, extract the tweet text, and dumpt it all into files, one per account. I had to be careful with two annoyances in process:

    Twitter puts severe rate limits on API calls, so this actually took several hours to collect, wrapped up in try catch blocks and time.sleep calls.
    The returned text is in Unicode, which leads to trouble if you’re going to try to write it to file.

One solution for the second annoyance is to use the codecs library:

import codecs
codecs.open(filename, 'w', 'utf-8').write(tweet_texts)

Oh, and lets also grab and save the Twitter profile pictures, which we’ll use in the visualization. An example for one user might be:

import urllib # yes I know this is deprecated
userobj = api.get_user(screen_name = user)
urllib.urlretrieve(imgname, userobj.profile_image_url) # save image to disk

I should mention that I write a lot of quick and dirty Python code in IPython Notebooks, which I very warmly recommend. If you’re writing all your Python in text editors, you’re seriously missing out.
Quantifying Tweep differences

We now have 500 tweeps and their 200 most recent tweets concatenated in 500 files. We’d now like to find who tweets about similar things. Scikit learn is very nice for quick NLP tasks like this. In particular, we load up all the files and create a 500-long array where every element are the 200 concatenated tweets. Then we use the TfidfVectorizer class to extract all words and bigrams from the text data, and to turn every user’s language into one tfidf vector. This vector is a fingerprint of the language that each person uses. Here’s how we can simply wire this up:

from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer,TfidfVectorizer
vectorizer = TfidfVectorizer(min_df=2, stop_words = 'english',\
strip_accents = 'unicode', lowercase=True, ngram_range=(1,2),\
norm='l2', smooth_idf=True, sublinear_tf=False, use_idf=True)
X = vectorizer.fit_transform(user_language_array)
D = -(X * X.T).todense() # Distance matrix: dot product between tfidf vectors

In the above, user_language_array is the 500-element array that has the concatenated tweets. The TfidfVectorizer class looks through all tweets and takes note of all words (unigrams) and word bigrams (i.e. series of two words). It builds a dictionary out of all unigram/bigrams and essentially counts up how often every person uses each one. Here’s an example of some tweet text converted to unigram/bigrams:

The tfidf vectors are returned stacked up as rows inside X, which has size 500 x 87,342. Every one of the 87,342 dimensions corresponds to some unigram or bigram. For example, the 10,000th dimension could correspond to the frequency of usage of the unigram “YOLO”. The vectors are L2 normalized, so the dot product between these vectors is related to the angle between any two vectors. This can be interpreted as the similarity of language. Finally, we dump the matrix and the usernames into a JSON file, and we’re ready to load things up in Javascript!
The Visualization parts

We now create an .html file and import jQuery (as always), and d3js, which I like to use for any kind of plotting. We load up the JSON that stores our distances and usernames with jQuery, and use d3js to initialize the SVG element that will hold all the users. For starters, we plot the users at random position but we will soon arrange them so that similar users cluster nearby with t-SNE. Inspect the code on the demo page to see the jQuery and d3js parts (Ctrl+U). In the code, we see a few things I like to use:

    I like to use Google Fonts to get prettier-than-default fonts. Here, for example I’m importing Roboto, and then using it in the CSS.
    Next, we see an import of syntaxhighlighter code which dynamically highlights code on your page.
    Then we see Google tracking JS code, which lets me track statistics for the website on Google Analytics.
    I didn’t use Bootstrap on this website because it’s very small and simple, but normally I would because this makes your website right away work nicely on mobile.

t-SNE

Finally we get to the meat! We need to arrange the users in our d3js plot so that similar users appear nearby. The t-SNE cost function was described in this 2008 paper by van der Maaten and Hinton. Similar to many other methods, we set up two distance metrics in the original and the embedded space and minimize their difference. In t-SNE in particular, the original space distance is based on a Gaussian distribution and the embedded space is based on the heavy-tailed Student-t distribution. The KL-divergence formulation has the nice property that it is asymmetric in how it penalizes distances between the two spaces:

    If two points are close in the original space, there is a strong attractive force between the the points in the embedding
    Conversely, if the two points are far apart in the original space, the algorithm is relatively free to place these points around.

Thus, the algorithm preferentially cares about preserving the local structure of the high-dimensional data. Conveniently, the authors link to multiple implementations of t-SNE on their website, which allows us to see some code for reference as well (if you’re like me, reading code can be much easier than reading text descriptions). We’re ready to write up the Javascript version!

The final code can be seen in tsne.js file, on Github. Note how we’re wrapping all the JS code into a function closure so that we don’t pollute the global namespace. This is a very common trick in Javascript that is essentially used to implement classes. Note also the large number of utility boring code I had to include up top because Javascript is not exactly intended for math :) The core function where all magic happens is costGrad(), which computes the cost function and the gradient of the objective. The correct implementation of this function is double checked with debugGrad() gradient check. Once the analytic gradient checks out compared to numeric gradient, we’re good to go! We set up a piece of Javascript to call our step() function repeatedly (setInterval() call), and we plot the solution as it gets computed.

Phew! Final result, again: t-SNE demo.

I hope some of the references were useful. If you use tsnejs to embed some of your data, let me know!
Bonus: Word Embedding t-SNE Visualization

I created another demo, this time to visualize word vector embeddings. Head over here to see it. The word embeddings are trained as described in this ACL 2012 paper.

The (unsupervised) objective function makes it so that words that are interchangable (i.e. occur in very similar surrounding context) are close in the embedding. This comes across in the visualization!

    Andrej Karpathy blog


EXPLORE
Careers at
ThermoFisher Scientific
Category
Country
State/Region
City
Search
Or Search by Keyword
Career
Opportunities
What Story Will You Tell?

    Careers Home >  Job Details 

Junior Software Engineering Specialist (high tech)
Apply Now
   
Job ID :
49574BR
Location :
Netherlands - Eindhoven
Job Description
The Company, pushing the boundaries of discovery
With more than 60 years of innovation and leadership, we enable customers to find meaningful answers to questions that accelerate breakthrough discoveries, increase productivity, and ultimately change the world. We design, manu­facture, and support the broadest range of high-performance microscopy workflows that provide images and answers in the micro-, nano-, and picometer scales.
Combining hardware and software expertise in electron, ion, and light microscopy with deep application knowledge in the materials science, life sci­ences, electronics, and natural resources markets, the worldwide team of 3200+ employees is dedicated to customers' pursuit of discovery and resolution to global challenges.

Check out these video’s

    Inside our Titan Transmission Electron Microscope https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wEmsDh_l_A
    Blog ASG SW Technical lead Eindhovenhttp://www.talentbox.nl/blogs/3/gl6zc7-achieve-breakthroughs-by-electron-microscopes-
    Blog ASG designer Eindhoven http://www.brainporttalentbox.com/blogs/3/iwdy98-building-software-related-applications-for-electron-microscopes-


The Position
The R&D Software Engineering Tools and Infrastructure team is responsible for supporting all software engineering teams within our R&D SW organization. This team is part of a global team handling infrastructure, configuration management, software tooling, and developer support for the R&D organization. We have multiple manufacturing and development sites globally. This role is stationed in the Netherlands and works closely with our local enthusiastic software development engineers.

This role is ideal for a candidate who loves to work in a dynamic multi-disciplinary international high tech environment and likes to solve complex technical problems. You work about 60% on operational end user support and the other 40% supporting the global software engineering tools and infrastructure team to optimize our long term R&D infrastructure. You will be trained on our systems and technologies in a complex engineering environment. A business trip to our facility in Brno (Czech Republic) is part of the training for this role as well. If you are energized by solving problems, while maintaining a highly stable software archive for high-performance systems, this is an excellent opportunity to change our world.

Your role will be a mixture of the following activities:

    Support the developers in producing quality software
    Ensure stability of the build and test environment
    Monitor build and smoke test results and trigger actions if needed
    Analyze root causes of failed builds and smoke tests in a structured way
    Provide support for engineering tools and infrastructure, including server maintenance, client support, branching and merging, etc
    Keep in close contact with the various software development teams to stay informed of their needs
    Continuously improve the build and test infrastructure towards continuous integration in the cloud
    Monitor the performance of the hardware and in case of infrastructural problems solve it in close cooperation with IT and our global Software Engineering Tools and Infrastructure team

The Requirements.
The successful candidate will possess the following combination of education and experience:

    Typically Bachelor degree (Ba/Bsc) in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a related technical software discipline
    1- 5 years of experience in any comparable role in any professional software development organization 


We prefer applicants with knowledge and experience in the following topics and technologies:

    Software configuration management processes
    Build management and tooling (e.g. Jenkins)
    Knowledge of SW development processes like Agile/SCRUM
    General programming languages, like C++, C# or Java
    Advanced windows user Linux system user experience
    Experience with SW testing
    Experience with automated build infrastructure
    Preferably Version control systems (e.g. Git/GitHub, IBM’s RTC)
    Preferably Issue management tooling (Jira, Redmine)
    Preferably scripting knowledge (Python, bash)


Personal skills

    Excellent interpersonal communications skills are required due to the high degree of interaction and collaboration in an international setting.
    Solid English skills
    A team player with strong problem-solving skills
    Customer oriented with the abilities to set the right priorities.
    Strong analytical view combined with a pragmatic and hands-on attitude (flexibility).
    Results-driven with a ‘can do’ mentality with an eye for quality.
    Curious, fast learning, mostly on the job.
    Willing to incidentally work outside office hours.




Apply Now
   
Join our Talent Community

If you're ready to make a difference in the world, you can do it here.
Join

SHARE
1

THE STORIES WE TELL
Career Opportunities
 

MY WORK IS A STORY OF MOMENTUM
Career Opportunities
 

INSPIRING FUTURE SCIENTISTS

Our mission is to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer.
About Thermo Fisher Scientific

Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. is the world leader in serving science, with revenues of $18 billion and more than 55,000 employees globally. Our mission is to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer. We help our customers accelerate life sciences research, solve complex analytical challenges, improve patient diagnostics and increase laboratory productivity. Through our premier brands - Thermo Scientific, Applied Biosystems, Invitrogen, Fisher Scientific and Unity Lab Services - we offer an unmatched combination of innovative technologies, purchasing convenience and comprehensive support.
Premier Brands

    Thermo Scientific
    Applied Biosystems
    Invitrogen
    Fisher Scientific
    Unity Lab Services

Follow Us

    Facebook
    Glassdoor
    LinkedIn
    Twitter
    YouTube

Company Information

    About Us
    Investors
    Newsroom
    Responsibility
    Careers

© 2017 Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

    Accessibility/Disability Access Terms & Conditions Privacy Statement EEO & Affirmative Action Statement Sitemap Powered by SmashFly 

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, citizenship, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, genetic information, veteran status, age or disability status. Read More

Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision. Read MoreFacebook
Ndu
Home20+
Friend Requests
Messages
6
Notifications
Account Settings

    Page
    Inbox
    Notifications3
    Insights
    Publishing Tools

    Settings
    Helpadditional tabs menu

Unikdesigns
Create Page @Username
Home
Posts
Photos
Shop
Offers
Groups
Community
Videos
Events
About
Manage Promotions
2
Change Cover
Unik Designs is your online shop for modern clothing. Our Facebook store is filled with the season’s hottest trends, available in all sizes. Our unrivaled clothing selection is a must have for anyone
Edit Description
share
Share Shop
settings
All Products
Add Product
	
Mens Classic T-Shirt
Processing
Share
	
100% Cotton Shirt High Quality
$15.00
Share
	
Add collections to organize your products and make it easier for customers to browse.
Add Collection
About	Create Ad	Create Page	Developers	Careers	Privacy	Cookies	Ad Choices
	Terms	Help	
Settings
Activity Log
Facebook © 2017

    English (US)HausaFrançais (France)Português (Brasil)EspañolالعربيةBahasa IndonesiaDeutsch日本語Italianoहिन्दी

Fabrice Boutet likes Mike Ritson's post.
Sandra Situngkir likes Theodora Simanungkalit's photo.
Ozor Samuel commented on Vic Sotto's photo.
Adurayemi Susan Ijiwande likes Leisure Stores's post.
Odenigbo Kosisochukwu likes Itz Queen Chamy's post.
Alexandra Chioma likes Sadcasm's photo.
Okechukwu Ibeabuchi shared NTD Life's video.
Ehighibe Kingzly likes his own post.
Uchechi Nwankwo commented on Precious Chukwu's post.
Nnenna Iheanacho likes Emmanuel Adukwu's post.
Chukwuka Tickle Nnamoko commented on his own photo.
Mhary Otsanya Pinky reacted to Adalin Ejeh's post.
Celina Linus likes Nancy Chidawa's photo.
Show Older
Chat with friends
YOUR PAGES

    Unikdesigns
    3
    Gigaridesigns

CONTACTS

    Blessing Williams Ukrakpo
    Okereke Oge
    Michael Lilian
    Ehinmosan Stephanie
    Brenda Ikerd
    Maureen Rele
    Linda Calin
    Zak Yesufu
    Sani Pama
    Ladi Daryan
    5h
    Amaka Johnson
    2h
    Chisom Britney Umeaku

MORE CONTACTS (12)

    Abayomi Usamot
    Aristides Racy Peace
    Doyinsola Luckycharm Folayan
    Ever Young
    Ganny Abiodun Eedris
    Likes Healty Living
    Marvelous Socute Ononiwu
    Narynha Santos
    Rich Smile Ishaku
    Ruby Kisaka
    Sandra Etum
    Smart J Iliya

Unable to connect to chat. Reconnecting...
Your Post
‎Ndu Titus‎ 
to
 Lagos Market
August 13 at 7:15pm ·
Turkish T-shirts
₦4,500
Lagos, Nigeria

High quality Turkish Designer T-shirts on promo price buy 3 get 1 free .. Place your order 08034262093
No automatic alt text available.
No automatic alt text available.
No automatic alt text available.
No automatic alt text available.
No automatic alt text available.
+7
Post to More Places
Like
CommentShare
1 1
Comments
Ndueze Ifeanyichukwu
Ndueze Ifeanyichukwu Interested!
Like
· Reply · Message · 3 hours ago
Remove
Ndu Titus
Ndu Titus Your location and size ? Can you add me on what's app
Like
· Reply · a few seconds ago
Manage
Ndu Titus
Write a reply...
Ndu Titus
Write a comment...
New! Posts from your Page will appear as tabs when they have new comments.


Philadelphia's Fair Chance Hiring Law Read More

Disability Access If you are an individual with a disability who requires reasonable accommodation to complete any part of our application process, including the use of this website, please Click Here.

Applicants have rights under Federal Employment Laws; Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA); Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO); and Employee Polygraph Protection Act (EPPA).

                    
                  karpathy

                    
                  karpathy

Musings of a Computer Scientist.
artition is then processed for quick sort. We define recursive algorithm for quicksort as follows −

Step 1 − Make the right-most index value pivot
Step 2 − partition the array using pivot value
Step 3 − quicksort left partition recursively
Step 4 − quicksort right partition recursively

Quick Sort Pseudocode

To get more into it, let see the pseudocode for quick sort algorithm −

procedure quickSort(left, right)

   if right-left <= 0
      return
   else     
      pivot = A[right]
      partition = partitionFunc(left, right, pivot)
      quickSort(left,partition-1)
      quickSort(partition+1,right)    
   end if		
   
end procedure

To know about quick sort implementation in C programming language, please click here.
Previous Page
Print
Next Page  
Advertisements
img img img img img img
Tutorials Point

    Write for us FAQ's Helping Contact 

© Copyright 2017. All Rights Reserved.
